
# Flexible Box

>In the flexible box layout model, the children of a flex container can be laid out in any direction, and can “flex” their sizes, either growing to fill unused space or shrinking to avoid overflowing the parent. Both horizontal and vertical alignment of the children can be easily manipulated. Nesting of these boxes (horizontal inside vertical, or vertical inside horizontal) can be used to build layouts in two dimensions.  

[Overview](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox/)


## Introduction

[CSS 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/) defined four layout modes — algorithms which determine the size and position of boxes based on their relationships with their sibling and ancestor boxes:

- **block layout**, designed for laying out documents
- **inline layout**, designed for laying out text
- **table layout**, designed for laying out 2D data in a tabular format
- **positioned layout**, designed for very explicit positioning without much regard for other elements in the document

This module introduces a new layout mode, flex layout, which is designed for laying out more complex applications and webpages.
## Terminology

A flex container is the box generated by an element with a computed display of flex or inline-flex. In-flow children of a flex container are called flex items and are laid out using the flex layout model.

可以通过设置`display`属性的值来将一个容器指定为Flexbox布局：

```css
.container {
  ...

  display: flex; /* 行内元素设置为 inline-flex */

  ...
}
```

><i class="fa fa-bell" style="color:#e99002"></i>
一旦将容器设置为Flexbox布局之后，子元素`float`、`clear`及`vertical-align`属性将失效。

采用Flex布局的元素，称为Flex容器（flex container），简称"容器"。它的所有子元素自动成为容器成员，称为Flex项目（flex item），简称"项目"。


### Basic Concept

Unlike block and inline layout, whose layout calculations are biased to the block and inline flow directions, flex layout is biased to the flex directions. To make it easier to talk about flex layout, this section defines a set of flex flow–relative terms. The flex-flow value and the writing mode determine how these terms map to physical directions (top/right/bottom/left), axes (vertical/horizontal), and sizes (width/height).

#### main axis & main dimension
#### main-start & main-end
#### main size & main size property
#### cross axis & cross dimension
#### cross-start & cross-end
#### cross size & corss size property

## Flex Containers
> see [flex container](./flex-containers/).

## Flex Items
> see [flex items](./flex-items/).

